What was happening in AI
was I think the most extraordinary
moment in the history of capitalism, the
history of American business. Anthropic
they added $11 of AR. Three highest
profile SaaS companies founded in the
last 10 12 years
are Palantir,
Snowflake, and Databricks.
And these three companies spent 10
[music] years building their businesses.
Anthropic added their combined
businesses in 1 month.
That's just nothing like that has ever
happened in the history of capitalism.
Forget my career.
Just the flat-out history of capitalism.
The history of business.
>> [music]
>> All right, so this is our sixth time
doing this if you can believe it, which
puts you back into first place. At least
tied for first place with Gurley. And I
think even since last time when we did
this, which was so exciting and
spectacular, I think we're in an even
more interesting time now. Maybe just
start by riffing on how it felt for you
living through March and April of this
year, which which felt to me just like a
completely unique economic, technology,
and market environment. And you're the
biggest student of the history and of
these times, so what did it feel like?
Now I'd say broadly speaking, there are
two kinds of drawdowns. There are
drawdowns where you're wrong, a company
misestimates,
your hypothesis was invalidated, and you
have to take your medicine and you
crystallize that loss.
And then there are drawdowns or periods
of underperformance where you're
underperforming because of companies you
know really really well,
and where you profoundly disagree with
the price action, and you can lean in.
And instead of crystallizing
uh negative performance, you can kind of
build pent-up alpha, pent-up future
performance. And for me, that is what
March felt like. It felt like uh
you know, the NASDAQ was selling off,
and at the same time, what was happening
in AI was I think the most extraordinary
moment in the history of capitalism, the
history of American business. And what I
just mean by that is an Anthropic, they
added $11 billion of ARR.
And what is astonishing to me about this
is that
the SaaS and cloud revolution it created
will call it between 5 and 10 trillion
dollars of value. And I would say
arguably the three highest profile SaaS
companies to have kind of
been founded in the last 10, 12 years
are Palantir,
Snowflake, and Databricks. And these
three companies
have spent and employed thousands of
people, tens of thousands collectively.
They've all spent 10 years building
their businesses. And Anthropic added
their combined businesses in 1 month.
>> [laughter]
>> That's just nothing like that has ever
happened in the history of capitalism.
Forget my career.
Just the flat-out history of capitalism.
The history of business. I mean,
it's wild that that Krishna comes out
this show and shares some stats, 500%
in DR.
>> Yeah, you do the math on that for 3
years.
Insanity. We So, there's just no
precedent for this, and we
you know, tech tech investors you you
hear a lot of discussions about S-curves
and investing in exponentials. I've just
never seen an exponential like this. It
felt even more extreme than Deep Seek,
which was a very similar setup. If we go
back to 25,
there was a huge sell-off at Deep Seek,
which was very strange because the paper
gets published
7 days
before Deep Seek Monday. It got
published
I believe on a Monday that was a holiday
in America. And I read it, I thought,
"Hmm, you know, this this feels like it
might not read
>> [laughter]
>> that positively for
uh you know, the AI trade. Yeah, I I
took action. We had Deep Seek Monday
where AI really imploded a week later.
And
that was really strange because by Deep
Seek Monday, it was super clear
that this was going to be the most
positive thing that had ever happened to
compute demand.
Prices in the AWS available availability
zones in Asia
had already
like doubled. You were seeing GPU
availability go down.
And this was just the first time we saw
how much more compute-hungry reasoning
models are during inference than
non-reasoning models.
And so that was a similar setup.
But you you had to do some work to see
that. I mean, it's not that hard
to say, "Oh, wow, stocks are selling
off. The price of DRAMs going vertical.
The price of GPUs in Asia are going
vertical.
Um GPU availability's going down. And
then like two or three days later, you
know, GPU prices in in in America
started going up, GPU rental prices."
All you had to do in in March was
just simply observe what was happening
to Anthropic. There's all these people
who seem to regret
you know, not buy during '22, not buy
during COVID, not buy during Deep Seek.
You had the same valuation setup
at the beginning of April.
And and even clearer AI inflection.
And so there've been all these chances
to buy into AI. And then of course, what
complicated it was the straight-up FOMO.
I became a believer, an every believer,
that I think maybe one thing that the
market was mispricing. it. I'm no
background expert. I do do a lot of pro
national security investing. So, I do
have access
to people who are experts that are
excited to share their thoughts and
opinions with me.
And that the Strait of Hormuz being
closed is actually relatively
awesome for America. Why?
Because, particularly for the goals of
the current administration.
So, electricity is a very important
industrial or manufacturing input.
The key
input into American electricity prices,
which feeds into AI,
is in G 1. Natural gas went up in
Bloomberg. That was down 20%.
And natural gas in Asia, Europe,
everywhere else doubled or tripled.
So, our relative manufacturing
competitiveness
improved overnight.
And for better or worse, that is what
the Trump administration seems to care
about. They are very focused on
America's relative position.
And I think a lot of people had memories
of the 1970s.
And what made the '70s so dramatic was
it wasn't just that prices went up.
It's that there were actual gas
shortages. And then you go through,
okay, well, the US economy is
dramatically less energy intensive than
it was. The US economy The United States
is now the world's largest producer of
oil and gas. And we've become now the
world's largest exporter of oil and gas.
And then on top of that, there's this
relative manufacturing advantage. And
so, that made it, I think, easier to
stay
focused on AI fundamentals, stay focused
on what were
historically attractive valuations. I
think on a relative basis, tech
essentially got as cheap as it's been
versus the rest of the market has at any
point over the last 10 years. And just
think about that in the context of
market efficiency. We have the most
extraordinary moment in the history of
capitalism
that's wildly bullish for AI and you get
a chance to buy AI
at really attractive valuation. What do
you make of the multiples that
specifically Anthropic and OpenAI, which
in my mind are like the reference assets
that are the most pure play takes on
this trend?
Really being not that crazy. Like if you
just look at the sales multiple and
compare it to maybe what Databricks and
Snowflake and these companies traded at
at their peak. Like how do you make
sense of it? I do think OpenAI and
Anthropic are pretty different animals
from a capital efficiency perspective.
And Anthropic clearly is has a
dramatically lower cost per token than
OpenAI.
They just do. And you can just see that
in the amount of money that they have
burned
to get to a roughly similar revenue
scale. I think they have they have
they've burned maybe 80% less than
OpenAI.
So as businesses, they clearly have very
different structural ROICs. I think
OpenAI is doing a lot I think Sarah
Friar is one of the most exceptional
CFOs. I think they're doing a lot of
things to try to improve this. And
they've secured a lot of compute more
more than others
>> They secured a lot of compute. That's
another big difference. Um it turns out
being aggressive really paid.
But yeah, I just Anthropic at 900
billion for 50 billion and
you know, ARR and you know, I I But
growing a thousand Yeah, growing at
ridiculous rates. Maybe a true statement
is that if Anthropic had all the
compute, they'd probably be doing well
north of a hundred billion dollars
today.
Maybe 150.
And I do you know, they have clearly
deprecated the intelligence of Claude.
There's analysis Claude is even on Opus
is generating 70% less tokens for the
exact same question. And you know, as we
talked about last time, token quantity
equals quality of answer and quality of
thinking at some level. You know, and
there is an intelligence density per
token that also matters. You know, I
think I felt that as as a user. So, I
think they would be doing materially
more. 100, 150 maybe 200 billion. So,
you might be buying it at more like five
times
unconstrained
I'm going to make up a new number.
URR unconstrained run rate revenue.
>> [laughter]
>> Yes.
Why do you think they don't raise a 100
billion dollars at a 3 trillion dollar
valuation or something like this? Like
if if you were the Anthropic CFO, uh
Krishna's awesome, we just had him on.
Or if you're the if you're Sarah,
certainly if if the inbound I received
following the Krishna episode is any
indication, everyone I've ever met is
trying to invest in in both these
companies. So,
I think it's wise.
It the future is uncertain.
You are clearly in a very capital
intensive game, even if you are you
know, Anthropic um I'm sure is at very
positive gross margins on inference
today. I can Anthropic probably starts
generating cash this year if they are
not already generating cash, which I
think is probably the case.
But still, you probably want to be able
to raise more capital, access more
compute. The world is uncertain. Ukraine
is starting to really really win. How is
Russia going to respond?
You know, I think there's still a lot of
uncertainty in Iran. All this
uncertainty I think probably amplifies
geopolitical uncertainty over Taiwan.
So, it's an uncertain world. If if I
think about Elon, Elon has always made
investors money.
He treats it like a sacred covenant. And
as a result, because he's made people
money for now 20 years, he has a
superpower. And that is he can
essentially raise as much capital
as he wants whenever he wants.
And I think it's wise that these
companies are taking I don't know if
that's how they think about it,
but I do think being focused on making
investors money
is wise
and creates benefits that don't just
last for like a year or two.
They can last for the next 20 to 30
years.
And the way Elon did this was sort of
systematically underpricing SpaceX or
whatever else. What is the actual
method?
Just never being greedy on valuation.
Never pushing valuation.
Just that simple. You know, my friend
Antonio pointed out SpaceX compounded
it, you know, low 30% per year for
whatever that was, a decade.
And and that was just cuz Elon was I
think focused on
preserving the superpower and having to
trying to strike a fair balance between
investors and employees.
But I I think it's wise. But could
Anthropic raise money
at probably at least a 100% premium
to this rumored latest mark? Of course.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact [music]
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, [music]
it's no wonder that Shopify runs on
Ramp, Stripe runs on Ramp, and my
business does, too. To see what happens
when you eliminate the busy work, check
out ramp.com/invest.
Felix by Rogo is a personal finance
agent [music] that turns a single prompt
into finished client-ready work using
your firm's own templates, contexts, and
standards. Send Felix an email like,
"Take these comments and turn them for
me." or "Update my tracker with the
context of these emails." or "Run on
ability to pay [music] math on this
buyer. And Felix sends back finished
PowerPoint decks, Excel models, and
sourced research.
Felix works the way your team already
does, [music] delivering work quickly
and accurately around the clock. Learn
more at rogo.ai/felix.
[music]
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, [music] and audit
logs. That's where WorkOS comes in.
Instead of spending months building
these mission-critical capabilities
yourself, you can just use WorkOS APIs
to gain all of them on day zero. That's
why so many of the top AI teams you hear
about already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is
the fastest way to become enterprise
ready and stay focused on what matters
most, your product. Visit workos.com to
get started.
>> Let's get to the Watson wafers part of
the discussion. [laughter] Always my
favorite thing to talk about with you.
Uh
the importance of this infrastructure
build-out. I feel like every time I feel
like it's getting overheated and then
the next time I talk to you, it seems
like we should have done way more than
we did. And you've studied S-curves and
the steepness of those S-curves a lot.
Uh and you know a lot about history.
Talk us through how you're thinking
about Watson wafers today as the key to
inputs into this whole thing. Yeah, I
would say I think capitalism is going to
solve the watts
shortage
absent big regulatory or political
blowback, which I think is a real
possibility. The head of kind of data
center infra investing at one of the big
PE firms, you know, think Blackstone,
Apollo, KKR said it used to be
energy and chips
were our biggest gating factors. Now
it's zoning and approval.
Much more important. And I think a lot
of companies are waiting till after the
midterms
to take action in terms of maybe
workforce reductions.
Nobody wants to be
you know, a piñata during the midterms.
But, you know, you've seen a lot of
companies that make turbines significant
announce a plans to significantly
increase capacity. There's like two of
these machines that can cast these big
blades.
We haven't made one in 80 years in the
West. We don't know how to make them
anymore, etc. etc. etc. All of that is
true and I
and by no means am I
minimizing, you know, the industrial
engineering, you know, magic and
artistry that goes into those, but
capitalism is very good at solving
problems like these over time. There's
other sources of energy besides these
turbines with a longer time frame. So, I
think the watts shortage
will probably begin to alleviate 27, 28.
And then I think orbital compute will
really solve that. And I do
I do want to like reframe orbital
compute because [snorts] I think when
people hear data centers in space,
they, you know, which we discussed in
our last episode, they picture a
Pentagon-sized building in space.
They're like, "Well, we can't do that."
That's not what it is.
A Blackwell rack weighs 3,000 lb. It's 8
ft high. It's 4 ft deep, 3 ft wide.
It's racks in space. It's SpaceX has
showed you an illustration.
And it's a rack. That's the satellite.
Um it's probably about the size of a
Blackwell rack. It has these solar wings
that are probably 500 ft long on each
side. You keep it in a sun synchronous
orbit so those solar panels are always
at the sun.
And then because it's in an exactly sun
synchronous orbit,
the radiator, which extends behind it
for hundreds of feet,
This is a common criticism, yeah. How
are you going to cool it?
>> Yeah.
I've spent
a lot of time at Starbase
over the years and I've talked to a lot
of SpaceX engineers.
And I do think it is the most talented
group of engineers on planet Earth. And
they're very confident they have solved
this. And they're not always confident.
Like I think probably, you know, there's
some engineering that needs to happen to
turn the Starship into a Mars colloidal
transporter. Will they do that?
Absolutely. What are they more focused
on? I'd say probably, you know, the
repair and maintenance. Those are the
two big, you know, the two big
responses. The radiator and the and how
do you repair the whatever issue goes
wrong in the rack. And the answer is
like until you have probably an, you
know, floating optimists, you don't.
Now, I do think Starship is going to
change the space economy in ways we
cannot imagine, particularly if
regulation becomes a constraint to data
centers. None of it's going to matter.
You're going to sell as much orbital
compute as you can make.
And then obviously you link these racks
using lasers traveling through vacuum,
which are already on every Starlink. And
it's just it's just mind-blowing to me
that SpaceX operates the world's largest
satellite fleet, which is
like 98 or 99% of all satellites in
orbit.
Every Starlink, they're cooling it
today.
And, you know, I think Starlink V3 is
going to operate at 20 kilowatts.
A Blackwell rack is only a 100
kilowatts. And people talk a lot about
density. Well, if you're connecting the
racks with lasers through vacuum, you
know, you can make the rack bigger
physically. You're focused on weight,
not size. In a data center on Earth
where you're trying to connect racks
ideally using copper, minimize lengths,
etc., etc. Cabling is a big cost. Um,
you do want that rack to be small cuz,
you know, copper when you can, optics
when you must. But in space, you know,
there's all sorts of things that SpaceX
can do that I think maybe some of these
naysayers are not contemplating.
But it's just they operate more
satellites than They have a 20 kilowatt
satellite today. So maybe you just scale
that up to 60 kilowatts to start. They
seem very confident they're going to go
right to 100 to 120.
And they also the same company now
also operates the largest data center on
Earth.
They have the world's best hardware
engineers and all sorts of people,
almost all of whom are not smart enough
or practical enough to work at SpaceX.
Are these armchair skeptics?
>> [laughter]
>> You know, I don't want to quote Larry
Ellison, but somebody was, you know,
being skeptical. And Larry And Larry was
just like, "Listen, he's out there
landing rockets. I don't see anybody
else landing rockets."
And the reality is is that 10 years
later, no other company is consistently
capable of landing and fully reusing an
orbital rocket.
And none of this works makes sense
without reusability. That means you have
to land it. I would like to redefine
orbital compute as racks in space.
Not giant floating Pentagon-sized
data centers in space, which is just,
you know, that's silly. But you can, you
know, what makes a data center is you're
connecting these racks with lasers.
So it'll be racks in space that are
connected with lasers into a virtual
data center.
And And if you think about that state of
the world, let's say that all happens
and we're really good at getting these
things up economically, running matrix
multiplication all over space. What does
that mean for terrestrial data centers?
Someone once said, um
you know, America was going to suck as
hard as it can on every energy source it
can get. And I just think the same is
true of compute.
It's why I'm probably less worried about
like an
edge AI bear case than I was.
We're going to consume as much compute
as we can.
And
inference, I think is very sensible for
orbital compute. Training will be done
on Earth for a long time. So, I don't
think that this is super bearish for
terrestrial data centers. I think those
are going to be valuable for
my lifetime.
But, I do think if you are in this
ecosystem of power production and
cooling
and you are massively ramping
capacity and you know, a lot of these
capacity ramps are going to be hitting
just as I think, you know, all of the
silly skeptics
start to understand that orbital compute
is very real. Like, I think it's worth
thinking long and hard about that if
you're one of those companies. And then
all sorts of cool stuff is happening in
the interim, you know, we're getting
really good at repurposing jet engines,
you know, there's that Boom Aerospace
that is doing this. So, there's a lot of
capitalism is hard at work
on on watts. On wafers though,
it's just this group
of, you know, plenty older humans in
Taiwan
who are the most important humans in
Taiwan. They are the overwhelming
fraction of the country's GDP, water
usage, electricity usage. They talk
about the silicon shield. They all view
themselves as inheritors of, you know,
Morris Chang's sacred legacy. I vividly
remember like visiting Science Park
more than 20 years ago
and, you know, talking to them, "Do you
think you could catch Intel?"
And they said, "This is such a beautiful
dream, but it's a dream for our
grandchildren." And they did it. Partly
because of Intel's self-inflicted
wounds,
but just they don't they think very
differently. You know, one reason, you
know, Jensen flies over there so much is
he wants them to expand capacity. I do
think it's wild that Jensen has never
had a contract with Taiwan Semi. They do
business on what seems fair in
handshakes.
Just fascinating. No contract.
It's going to be fair over time. We're
partners. We're going to be fair to each
other.
And the truth is, you know, based on
every every prior market precedent for a
foundational new technology like AI,
you've always had a bubble. You know,
Carlotta Perez wrote this great book
about this. And basically, markets are
efficient. They correctly understand
that this is a foundational new
technology.
There's what Simpson calls a breakdown
in diversity.
Everyone becomes bullish on this new
technology.
And I am beginning to worry a little bit
about a diversity breakdown.
And then you get a bubble. That bubble
funds the build out of this new
technology, but supply gets ahead of
demand.
And you get a crash, and it's a
particularly severe crash if it's a
debt-fueled build out like the year
2000.
And one thing I'm really happy about
really good about the current build out
is it's still overwhelmingly funded out
of operating cash flows, which is a a
really important fundamental difference
versus year 2000. As is valuation, as is
the fact that every GPU is running at
100% utilization when 99% of fiber was
unutilized. So, there's all these
fundamental differences.
But we do have to History doesn't
repeat, but it rhymes. And and as
investor, we have to be very cognizant
of it.
And recognize that based on the last 200
years, you know, forget the internet
bubble. We had a railroad bubble. A
canal bubble. We should expect a bubble.
And
that's terrifying. Like nobody wants a
bubble. A bubble is terrible. Reason
it's terrible is if you're valuation
sensitive, you like massively
underperform. You get fired by probably
all your clients. George Vanderheide,
who
um is is is no longer with us, great
uh Fidelity portfolio manager.
He fought the bubble in '99.
And he retired in two in early 2000 cuz
I think he just couldn't couldn't take
it.
He knew it was wrong.
And you know, his his clients were
deeply skeptical. George, you're out of
step. You know, he had he had white
hair. He's truly great man.
I only overlapped with him briefly, but
he was a very important mentor and
friend to my good friend and mentor
Jennifer Yurig. So, I have a lot of
Vander Heiden DNA through her.
Like he was the same person who said
being early is the same thing as being
wrong. George retired cuz he can't take
the underperformance and he can't take
clients saying, "What's wrong with you?
You don't get it." And he has like 40%
of his fund did tobacco, 40% in home
builders.
And literally he under he probably
outperformed the Nasdaq
by like
20 or 30X over the next 3 years, okay?
And I have been optimistic that this
fundamental shortage of wafers, which
really today is controlled by Taiwan
Semi, will prevent one.
If Taiwan Semi did what Jensen wanted, I
think Nvidia could sell $2 trillion of
GPUs
in 20 in 26 or 27. Maybe 2 and 1/2
trillion. Maybe 3 trillion. But there is
a limit where consumers would consume so
much that you probably would be in an
overbuild. And so, Taiwan Semi, if we
don't get a bubble, like we need to
throw a party for them because they will
have single-handedly prevented a bubble,
okay? You are starting to see companies
go to Intel
and Samsung. Let's just assume TSMC
stays super supply constrained versus,
you know, the latent demand. Like what
what happens?
one of,
>> [snorts]
>> you know, the history of markets is I
don't know who, but one of Intel and
Samsung, they're not going to stay
disciplined. They will break.
And then at some level that will force
everyone else to break.
So,
like I think a lot of this may come down
to the degree to which Taiwan Semi can
maintain a lead over Intel and Samsung.
And you got to remember it's whatever it
is, it's 9, 12, 15 months.
>> Sort of like the leading node edge, you
mean? Exactly. You know, the pace at
which they expand capacity.
Like if I were to watch one thing to
understand where there's a bubble, it's
Taiwan Semi's capacity decisions.
And I think there's a Goldilocks zone
where they
expand enough
they make it hard for Intel or Samsung
to really, truly emerge as like a um
at scale second source with something,
you know, well north of 30% market
share.
And yet they also keep this fundamental
constraint on wafers
that
you know, helps us avoid a bubble. And
then obviously, I think the Terra Fab
um is going to play into this, too. Say
more about that. For people that are not
familiar.
>> the Terra Fab. It's a SpaceX, I believe
Tesla's involved as well. Um joint
venture to build the world's largest fab
here in America. And I'm I think they're
going to be successful. One, they have a
partnership with Intel, which is very
important. Um because they're getting
access
to 50 years of institutional knowledge.
That's just, you know, a 9 months, a few
quarters, 12 months, three to five
quarters behind the front. That's an
advantage.
It's also an advantage that I believe
the Terra Fab is going to get attention
from the A teams at all the semi-cap
equipment companies. Like one big reason
Taiwan Semi caught up is ASML and KLA
Tencor and Lam Research and Applied
Materials. They wanted them to catch up.
They didn't They don't like having a
monopsony.
And so the A teams were in Taiwan
working Intel made some mistakes.
And presto. And so the A teams will will
be here cuz of Elon's reputation in in
hardware engineering.
And then just to a degree that I think
is uh maybe hard for people to imagine
in America.
Um where, you know, politics has
replaced religion cuz Elon had his foray
into politics that makes it hard for
some people in America
to see him clearly, which is sad because
I do think
you know, he's probably doing more for
America than any other American. You
know, he's single-handedly bringing
manufacturing back to America. He's
revived defense tech. SpaceX is in some
ways the most important defense
contractor in America.
You know, what he's doing with Starlink
is amazing for the world. He's creating
all these blue-collar manufacturing
jobs, which is like a goal I think of a
lot of liberals
and good for America. He's done more
than any living human to decarbonize the
world. And if you are upset about data
centers on Earth for environmental
reasons, well, here you go.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh so it's it's sad,
but he is a living deity
in China,
Taiwan, South Korea, and Japan.
And having watched him for a long time,
what he's going to do is they're going
to recruit the best people
because the best engineers
want to work for Elon,
especially in hardware engineering. He's
going to recruit incredible engineers.
And then they'll be next to the next to
Terrific Um they'll be a Taiwan town.
Oh, these are your favorite restaurants?
I'm going to move them and their whole
staff
from Taiwan to Texas. And we're going to
make everything the way they like it.
And then we'll have Japan town. Same
thing. We're going to have Korea town.
We're going to have all these things
exactly [clears throat]
but dialed to recruit the best
engineers.
And that's just not the way that
the people who run Intel and Samsung
think.
So, he's going to have the best talent.
He's going to have the A teams
at the wafer fab equipment companies.
He's He has Intel, which is important.
It's so good for all of any
administration's political goals.
And I think it's different enough that
it will not alienate Taiwan semi.
>> And these have long lead times, right?
So, like TerraFab is going to be pumping
out Nvidia cheaper whatever GPUs
whatever chips like quite quite a long
time from now. Elon tends to do things
differently. Everybody else is taking 3
years to build a data center. He built
one in 122 days.
>> [laughter]
>> You know.
Samsung had to give him an office in
their fab in Texas cuz he was so unhappy
about like the pace at which they're
expanding and building. We'll see. Are
you surprised by
You mentioned Deep Seek earlier. The
simple reaction to that was, okay, these
models are just going to get
95% as effective for some tiny fraction
of the cost of still Chinese open source
models like we'll be able to use these
for most of what we want to do. Fast
forward it a little bit of time, you
know, 2 years from now, there's no
reason I have to spend a million dollars
a year in my small little firm on on
tokens or something. But then the actual
reality seems quite different than this.
And I'm curious why there's that
dissonance in your mind.
>> I do think it's the fascinating the
returns to the frontier.
All the economic returns to AI at the
model layer,
not all of them, but an overwhelming
amount of them have been at the
frontier,
which is surprising to me.
I think it's been surprising to a lot of
people. And I think
this is one of the most important
questions to be answered, and you need
to have a hypothesis on it as an
investor. Are frontier tokens going to
continue
capturing the overwhelming majority of
economic value created at the model
layer?
And it is surprising. Like I just I
remember when Jim and I 3.1 Pro came
out.
And it was it was mind-blowing to me. It
was so good.
And today, it's intolerable.
Intolerable.
And, you know, there's probably a little
bit of a dynamic where companies
prototype with frontiers, then when they
put something into production, you're
hearing a lot of people do use for
attacks or, you know, open source.
But still, it is it is a fact today that
the overwhelming majority of these
economic returns come from frontier
tokens.
And that's surprising. And whether or
not it continues, I think is a very
interesting question.
And I'm much more open-minded to that
having had the experience I've had with
Gemini 3.1.
And then Opus.
Um and then I do use Grok 4.3. It is on
the Pareto frontier. Like the companies
that are on the Pareto frontier are And
this is, by the way, a big change in a
consequence of what we talked about last
time, Google losing their per cost token
leadership as a result of making very
conservative design decisions with TPU
v8 to try and
take it away partially from Broadcom and
Nvidia
um continuing to make aggressive
choices. Uh but Google dominated the
Pareto frontier. The Pareto frontier
being intelligence first cost. And I
think this is the most important thing
to look at to analyze AI labs. Google
dominated that 9 months ago. At every
point on the Pareto frontier,
OpenAI, xAI, and Anthropic were inside
of them.
Now, the Pareto frontier is dominated by
Anthropic, OpenAI,
and then Grok 4.3 is on the Pareto
frontier. It's clearly like the,
you know, the best lowest cost 500
billion parameter model. And then Gemini
3.1 is like hanging onto the Pareto
frontier. And if I were to bet, I'd bet
that they're subsidizing that out of
pride. I'd just say, well, one,
violation of Richard Sutton's bitter
lesson is for sure the biggest risk to
this trade. To all of AI.
Now, the closer someone is to AI, the
more skeptical they are this will occur.
One thing I think contributed to
weakness in March was, you know, a much
more stupid version of deep seek, which
is a thing called turbo quad.
And turbo quad is some Google memory
optimization that was written up in a
paper a year ago. And then during the
middle of an agreement, while Google was
negotiating
with Micron, Samsung, and Hynix to sign,
you know, some LTA that would lock in
really high prices for a long time,
they released this. You know, what
people do is always more important than
they say, and they just kind of
publicize it on X.
And it goes viral. Like, "Oh my god,
DRAM is cooked. Here's this DRAM
optimization." I was unable to find a
single AI engineer on planet Earth who
believed that turbo quad would have any
impact on DRAM demand. But nonetheless,
a violation of Richard Sutton's bitter
lesson, you know, more compute will
always outperform human algorithmic
ingenuity. More compute and data are
chin beyond Chinchilla optimal, I guess
what what people increasingly do today.
That's a real risk, man.
And I think the people who are building
these models are skeptical of that risk.
The reason I am a little less skeptical
is I think we are very close to ASI. And
who knows if the bitter lesson holds for
400 IQ models. Just, you know, or maybe
we get a temporary
period where these, you know, if you get
to ASI, the first thing it wants is
probably to be smarter and have more
resources. How does it do that? It makes
itself more efficient. I think that
is an actual risk that humans, the
bitter lesson, literally I believe
includes humans in it.
So, we're about to find out whether the
bitter lesson will find out if applies
to a 300 IQ AIs, then 400, then 500, and
600. And at some point, we may have like
a temporary violation of the bitter
lesson
based upon AI and ASI. So, I'm curious
how you think about some other parts of
the innovation around the model,
continual learning and memory being two
that people seem to be most focused on
as things that might create yet another,
you know, new paradigm that we would
enter. What do you think about the role
of those two things?
>> Yeah, well, I think we've done a lot
with memory through these harnesses. And
it turns out that harness engineering
is
not as important as the model, but it
really matters. And these harnesses and
these models are increasingly being
co-developed. One of the big things a
harness does, we used to think of it as
like a a runtime that the model operates
in. It knows where the pool tools are.
It you know, it creates context, memory,
state. Um, you know, has very specific,
you know, prompts or instructions. And
just Makes a huge difference. Even
[clears throat] simple versions. It
makes an incredible difference. And I
think the last time I was on here or one
of the other times I just said like,
"Hey,
as an investor, it's very important that
you pay for the $250 a month version to
get like your own intuitive sense."
That's no longer possible. To understand
what Frontier AI is capable of today,
even for like a non-coding use case, you
need to have Claude code or Codex. And
you need to be on an enterprise plan.
And the reason for this is and this is
another, I think and
this is another dynamic that's enabled
by Google losing their
cost leadership, is these AI models just
shifted to usage-based pricing. And if
you're on that $250 or $300 or $280 a
month plan or whatever it is,
you're getting severely rate limited.
You're getting a lobotomized version of
the AI.
Because like we talked about, Claude now
produces 70% less tokens. You want the
tokens that Claude and its harness
really think it needs to produce to get
you a good answer, you need to be on a
usage-based plan. And by by way,
this is
so bullish for AI. I was a telecom
analyst in '05 to '07.
And cellular had been a great growth
industry really for last 10 years. And
the reason was
you had a combination of fixed pricing.
You had 900 minutes for whatever it was,
and then usage-based pricing over that.
And when did cellular stop being a great
growth industry? When everybody just
went to all you can eat.
And And by the way, long distance is the
same thing. AI is just shifting from all
you can eat to pay by the drink. And it
turns out people really like to talk to
their friends long distance. They really
like to talk to their friends on the
phone. And people really like to use AI.
And particularly now that one person can
have 100 agents working. So, I think
this shift to usage-based pricing
is probably why you will see OpenAI and
Anthropic exceed well over $200 in ARR
this year. Because not only is more
compute going to become online, but
they're going to be able to push
frontier token pricing with these usage
enterprise models.
But it's it's sad. It's sad for the
world. And cuz it just means if you
can't afford that, you're not at the
frontier. But yeah, continual learning,
man. I mean, if we solve that How do you
conceptualize that? Like There's so many
mysteries about the human mind. Like
we're such sample efficient learners
relative to AI.
Like I forget what it is, but like an AI
needs
>> Orders of magnitude. Yeah, many orders
of magnitude. Now, we have a crude
variant of continual learning today when
something is verifiable. And that's just
you know, reinforcement learning during
mid-training.
But yeah, continual learning is a model
that dynamically adjusts it its weights
or adjusts in some way in real time.
Like as a human, That's what you do.
Yeah, like if I the first time I touch
or, you know, put my hand in a fire,
I've learned I never put it in there
before.
That model today needs to put its hand
in the fire a million times
and then have, you know, the designers
effectively put a fire in the next
training run or an RL gym for it to
learn. I think it has to be dynamically
updating the weights, but I think people
are working on really smart techniques
beyond this.
But if we get that,
then we have a really fast takeoff. And
people seem
confident that continual learning
is kind of just around the corner. And I
do think this is like the third big
question. Bitter lesson violation as
result of ASI are less likely. Human
ingenuity. Will frontier tokens still
command the premium they do?
And will you get continual learning and
if so, when?
As your business scales up, everything
gets more complex, especially your
compliance and security needs. With so
many tools offering band-aids and
patches, [music] it's unfortunately far
too easy for something to slip through
the cracks. Fortunately, Vanta is a
powerful tool designed to simplify and
automate your security work [music] and
deliver a single source of truth for
compliance and risk. There's a reason
that Ramp, Cursor, [music] and Snowflake
all use Vanta. It frees them to focus on
building amazing, differentiated
products, knowing that compliance and
security are under control. Invest like
the best listeners get a special offer
of $1,000 off Vanta
>> [music]
>> when you go to vanta.com/invest.
I know firsthand how complex the tech
stack [music] is for asset management
firms. And seemingly every new tool and
data source makes the problem even
worse, adding more complexity, more
headcount, and more risk. [music]
Ridgeline offers a better way forward,
one unified platform that automates away
that complexity across portfolio
accounting, reconciliation, reporting,
[music] trading, compliance, and more,
all at scale.
Ridgeline is revolutionizing investment
management, helping ambitious firms
scale faster, operate smarter, and stay
ahead of the curve. See what Ridgeline
can unlock for your firm. Schedule a
demo at ridgeline.ai. [music]
What is the role of new chip companies
in all of this? Like we talked a lot
about Nvidia and you know, their their
sort of relationship with TSMC and Intel
and all these sorts of things. There's a
thousand flowers blooming, I think
literally probably a thousand flowers
blooming, trying to create a new chip to
address some part of this bottleneck.
I'm curious how you process this space,
this opportunity, what role it will
play, what role they'll play. So, I
think this is good and healthy for the
world. It's good for Jensen, too.
Um you know, because a different
administration might take a different
view. Competition, I think, is good for
everyone. In in tank design, they talk
about the iron triangle. The iron
triangle's tank design is that all
designers of a tank, they have to make
trade-offs between attack, defense, and
mobility. And you know, for obvious
reasons. The more defense you have,
which is your armor, the heavier the
tank is, the less mobile it is. So, you
have to live in this triangle and make
trade-offs. Okay? Like the Merkava in
Israel, it's optimized for defense.
Russian tanks and like the Leopard are
generally more optimized for mobility.
Chip design is the same.
And you
there there are these fundamental
constraints imposed by the laws of
physics as embedded in the Taiwan semi
design rules that you need to live
within. And
you have TPU, Trainium, and AMD, which
are all
um
you know, essentially trying to be a
better GPU.
And today, I think probably Trainium is
doing the best. Now, nobody's a better
GPU. But Trainium is is, I think,
they're you know, they're they're
tugging on Superman's cape.
And and this is that I'm starting yet.
The Trainium 3 needs to ramp into
production cuz it has a switch scale-up
network, which you really need to
economically inference MoE models. You
know, a lot of companies have a Taurus
architecture. Um that that's where
Google was. And AMD, we'll see. The
MI450, we we we don't know yet. We'll
see. We probably know more about Tridium
3 than the MI450. But, that's a hard
game to play. So, you have to do
something different. And you have to do
something different that is also hard to
do. So, I think the best path for these
startups, like my rule of thumb is 1%
market share is going to be worth 100
billion. 100 billion is a pretty good
venture outcome. I think what Jensen
would say is like, "Okay, if something
somebody does something different and it
gets to 1 or 2 or 3% share,
we'll make that chip."
And that's that's coming for everyone.
But, if you're trying to make a better
GPU, good luck. If you were doing
something
different, it also needs to be hard to
do. And you can make different
tradeoffs, you know, the disaggregation
of prefill and inference really have
opened the aperture
um for making these different pre
tradeoffs because you can make very
aggressive tradeoffs for decode,
aggressive tradeoffs for prefill.
Prefill being taking in the context,
decode being, you know, write the
output. Yeah, I have a great colleague
named Andrew Fox who said, "Picture, you
know, a British naval ship from the 18th
century. Prefill is loading the cannon,
decode is firing it." And what prefill
literally is is just the model
understanding the question, the prompt,
and then kind of keeping track of its
own deco- if if it's own answer. And
that is fundamentally a memory capacity
bound problem. Decode is the process of
generating new tokens and that is memory
bandwidth constrained.
And so, if you're a chip designer, this
gives you a richer canvas to to paint
on. But, even so, it needs to be hard
cuz if you make different tradeoffs in
that iron triangle to optimize for
memory capacity and they're not hard
tradeoffs to make, well then, Nvidia is
going to make those same tradeoffs.
They get better prices from Taiwan Semi
than you're ever going to get. Um and
good luck. Good luck. And they have the
advantage of working with every model
company and optimizing in designs. By
the way, another very funny thing is if
you're a VC
and you're investing in a semiconductor
company that is telling you they are
going to have an advantage cuz of a
Taiwan semi process that they have
special access to. I promise you
that Jensen saw that process
when it was a twinkle in Taiwan semi's
eyes
and it they know more about it than this
little company with
200 people can imagine. Taiwan semi,
everybody supply chain is showing Jensen
everything. The same way they're showing
Amazon everything, AMD everything,
TPU everything. And that's another
reason don't go try to make a better
GPU.
So you can do something different. You
can paint in the prefill canvas. You can
paint in the decode canvas.
But you also have to do something hard
because if it gets to scale,
you're going to have those four
companies as very fast followers. My
firm was a was a um
venture investor in Cerebrus. What
Cerebrus has done is something hard and
fundamentally different. Wafer scale
computing.
And it it comes with a set of tradeoffs.
But that
architectural decision they made was
hard
and lets them do something that no one
else can do. And we'll find out how big
that is. And you know, they're working
on really cool things like um one of the
problems Cerebrus has, once you start
needing to glue a lot of chips together
and scale up networks or scale out
networks,
you need a lot of IO. And IO is bound by
what's called the shoreline, the sides
of the chip. And so Cerebrus has an
overwhelming ratio of on-chip computer
memory relative to shoreline IO.
Well, they're really smart people. They
did something really hard. They're
trying to see if they can put an optical
wafer right on top of that. And then
that solves that problem. Um I'm sure
they're looking at hybrid bonding of
DRAM, you know, to get around these
alleged limitations that are not true. A
Cerebrus machine can theoretically run
any size model. So there are of models
where they're much better than other
sizes.
So, Cerebras, what I think is
interesting is they did something
different that's hard to do. Really hard
to do. Wafer scale computing. So, I do
think there's a role for these. And, you
know, I would just encourage them all.
Make a different trade-off.
And
try and do something hard.
Cuz
everybody's going to get funded after
the Cerebras IPO. It's not going to be a
problem. But, it took it took Cerebras
three generations of chips
to get it right.
And it's really hard. Like, Andrew
Feldman, the CEO, you can just see
how hard it was what he did and that
whole team did to get where they are
today.
And they need to have the grit to do
that, the resilience. This first chip is
a failure. It happens. Can you come back
and make a second chip? But, the one
last thing on this topic, this is going
to be amazing for the useful lives of
GPUs and may single-handedly save
private credit.
>> about that. What do you What do you mean
by the private credit?
>> Well, just, you know, private credit,
they're in pain from these SAS loans.
And however much they're marked down,
they probably need to be marked down
more. Cuz if the public companies are
struggling to to adapt, how's like a
debt laden company going to going to
adapt? Um and invest in what is a very
different margin structure business.
But, there's a lot of private credit in
GPUs, too. They were underwriting that
to I think three or four years.
And but the disaggregation of inference
means
that I think these GPUs are going to
have 10 or 15-year lives. The AI
skeptics are like, "Oh, these companies
are all cooking their books. You know,
the useful life of
GPU is only a year or two. The useful
life of a CPU is only four years cuz the
rapid technological change." No. What
rapid technological change has done with
the disaggregation of prefill and
inference
is mean that you you know, you can put a
Cerebras system or Groq LPU's that
Nvidia acquired
and effectively in front of a hopper or
even an ampere use that hopper and
ampere for prefill and extend the useful
life of that GPU
until it melts. Now they do melt. They
do melt so they have a time but you know
maybe you don't have to run them
as fast. This is going to be really good
for the whole private credit industry.
It's going to help finance the AI build
out cuz if you can start to finance GPUs
at more like you know
5% or 6% instead of I think CoreWeave's
lowest financing was like low sevens.
That actually mathematically changes the
cost of finance this build out. We had
this technological innovation that
it's going to lower the cost of
financing, extend the useful life of
computer on earth. And then I do think
the one last thing that's interesting
about that is um
my friend Jamin from Coatue just did a
podcast and Coatue had a deck and they
talked about hey
you know the sellers of shortage are
doing so much better than the buyers of
shortage. Buyers shortage being you know
the the hyperscalers.
But if you own a giant installed base of
what is currently in shortage that's
also a very very good place to be. And
we're hearing you know CPUs are way more
important than they were in an agentic
world. They do all these things around
orchestration, tool calls, etc. etc.
etc. The biggest CPU fleets in the world
sit at the hyperscalers. So I think some
of these hyperscalers may have
you know may may catch up a little bit
to the sellers of shortage.
>> I want to talk about this idea of
different and hard applied outside of
the infrastructure piece of this. So now
you're starting to interact with new
founders, um existing CEOs and founders
that have to adjust to this new world.
What are you seeing like the most AI
native founders that aren't building
chips or infrastructure or models but
just people using this technology to
build other stuff. How do they feel the
most different to you if if you've
observed differences?
Well one I do think this is just for
chip design. To me it's always been a
fundamental question for venture.
So there are different ideas that are
obvious to everyone on planet Earth as
soon as they hear it. And if that's
where you are in venture, if it's not
hard to do, if it becomes obvious to the
world before you have built
scale, scale is the ultimate advantage,
you're in trouble. And the great thing
Amazon had was,
you know, it was obvious to a lot of
people, but it wasn't obvious to the
retail CEOs. And Amazon, they were very
smart.
Any e-commerce company that VCs invested
in, they would destroy.
They'd be like, "Oh, that's so cute.
We're going to We're going to take our
margins in that to negative 10,000%."
And that's what like like the guys at
Wayfair, they did something hard. And
Amazon tried to kill them and they
failed. Those were like tough
operationally,
like really competent CEOs. For me in
venture, I always look,
is this going to be obvious to the world
before this company could build scale?
Or is this both not obvious, different,
and really hard to do?
I think a lot of founders are really
struggling with this
in AI. Like I think people are
becoming worried, you know, today in
that in Jensen's five-layer cake of AI,
you know, the profits, they're accruing
to energy, they're accruing to data
centers, they're accruing to chips,
they're accruing to models, not really
accruing to the applications. Cursor and
Cognition,
you know, got to a scale. You know, they
focused on coding, you know, 18 months
ago the people were focusing on coding.
OpenAI was doing everything under the
sun. The people focused on coding were
Cursor, Cognition,
and
Anthropic. And it was really righteous
focus on code.
Um I'm John Massaad, the founder of
Replit, tweeted something that I thought
was so smart. Just it was something
like, you know,
bitter lesson adjacent is the fact that
coding might be the shortest path to ASI
and useful AI. Cuz if you really go to
coding, you can write yourself code to
do anything. And so I think it was
really smart of those companies to focus
intensely on coding. And I think they
all probably got to
a scale where they they have a place. I
think Cognition is doing something
really, really different. But I think a
lot of founders are really struggling,
man. They're really struggling.
And you know, I think they're trying to
get confidence that in niche areas
that they can get to them and get like a
you know, a data moat
before the model companies get to that
niche. Or that it's a small enough niche
that the model companies won't do it
themselves, but it can still produce a
different outcome.
>> Is this related to what you would call
like the token path? I know you've used
that phrase with me before. Yeah, he
comes from a guy at Altimeter, Jamin
Ball. He just said, "If you're a
software company or an AI company of any
kind, you have to be in the token path."
So Databricks, that's in the token path.
Comparable companies are in the token
path. If you're not in the token path
and you're not in some really niche
thing,
life may be hard. And even for these
vertical niches,
I think if you talk to the people at the
model companies,
they're even skeptical of some of these
because all of the data that's, you
know, being generated in these niches
come from humans. But then you're
betting that you're able to use that
proprietary data in this narrow vertical
to train a model that's lower cost than
the Frontier Labs can ever get to. Maybe
that's a good bet. But I just think you
have to be very, very careful. Now, on
the other hand, if the returns to these
frontier tokens relative to other tokens
come down,
there's going to be an explosion in
value creation at the application layer.
And I think another really important
point is
I have a belief
that whenever he wants
Jensen can probably get pretty close to
the frontier.
With his own model. With his own model.
They're doing some really cool things in
pneumatronics.
>> to monetize your compliment as Sklansky
would say.
>> don't think he wants to do that. That is
what OpenAI
and you know, Anthropic are kind of
trying to do to him
unsuccessfully.
But so it's just like he's a very
logical thinker. This is the logical
counter move.
And I think you will see that like open
source frontier, which today consists
of, you know, Chinese models with stolen
American tokens, you know, somebody told
me that like Deep Seek
uh the latest one or maybe the original
one was only 150,000 reasoning traces.
There's many ways to launder this if
you're Chinese company.
You know, you can hit all these
different APIs. You can make it hard.
Now, the American labs are working
really hard on anti-distillation
technology, but I I I just think Chinese
open source, they're doing really
impressive things in a very resource
constrained way, but there's a lot of
distillation. And this is why
I think in addition to there not being
enough compute to serve Mythos,
just they did not want it to be
distilled. They wanted to use Mythos,
you know, distill it themselves, use it
to RL their next model, whatever it is.
And then I think what they and
eventually I think if OpenAI gets to,
you know, economics I feel good about
anyone on the frontier will do is just
say
you know, there's going to be some very
interesting game theory because it's it
is it's a new kind of prisoner's
dilemma. You know, we talked about the
old prisoner's dilemma being just around
like, "Hey, you you're in a prisoner's
dilemma where you have to spend." The
new prisoner's dilemma is going to be if
you were at the frontier, do you release
that model via API or not?
And if everyone at the frontier agrees
not to do that, then Chinese open
sources
quickly
if one person defects, they're going to
have the best model,
they're going to have a lot of revenue
and cash flow, and then of course
resources equal intelligence, so they'll
start to pull ahead and then that will
lead to, you know, everybody else
releasing it. So it's a new game theory.
It's kind of the same game theory that
you have with Taiwan Semi,
Samsung and Intel. The reality is like
if if a company like Nvidia were or AMD
were to ever really really use one of
these other foundries, that foundry
would get better really quickly. So I do
think
Jensen is going to keep open source
a certain time frame behind the
frontier. I think that's going to be a
very interesting thing to watch. And
then by the way, open source gets
monetized. There's this misnomer that
open source is free. Open source tokens,
they cost energy, they can, you know,
they cost energy to produce, you need to
make up on GPUs, and the open source
model companies almost always get a
revenue share. How are you preparing a
trade ease for the world of Mythos 3,
Mythos 4? We're just trying to over
invest in cyber security, you know,
something I've like, you know, said in
multiple forums and I really believe is
you everybody needs to have a safe word.
Everybody needs to go
leave your digital devices behind,
literally go to the ocean and have a
family safe word or a company safe word.
And it can't be one that can be like
socially engineered. And this is just to
avoid like cyber crime where like what
looks like your son or your daughter or
your your grandparents or your parents
or whatever FaceTimes you,
it's an utterly accurate
simulation of them.
They know everything and can extrapolate
based on what they've said, what they're
likely to say,
and says, you know, wire me a million
bucks. That's defensive. What about What
will you still be able to do that it
won't be able to do, I guess? On the
analytical side. So it's a good
question. I did just have I just watched
The Last Samurai and I asked um at my
firm to watch it. And The Last Samurai,
if you haven't seen it, I highly
recommend watching it. It's actually a
movie that's aged really well. Tom
Cruise movie from 20 years ago, you
know, the conceit is Tom Cruise is this
like bitter, washed-up Civil War veteran
who's actually a very good soldier. He's
bitter and washed-up cuz he feels like
he participated in negative actions
against the Native Americans. He's hired
by Japan to train It's during the Meiji
Restoration. And he's hired by the
modern elements of the Japanese
government to train like an army of
peasants
how to fight the samurai. There's a
first battle, of course the samurai win
even though they don't have guns.
He fights valiantly, so the samurai
decide not to kill him, take him to
their village. He becomes a samurai. It
feels like the Civil War to him. So he
fights on the side of the samurai.
And at the end, he's massacred by a
peasant with a machine gun.
And like the machine gun is here.
And if we do not all
become masters of the machine gun, we're
going to get mastered. So I am trying to
become a master of the machine gun. And
then,
you know, I'm optimistic there's a long
period of time where just like if you
were a 50-year-old samurai veteran of
many wars, I fought many wars, Master
Dwarf.
Um you will have advantages using the
machine gun. And I'm optimistic as a
lifelong student of investing, I'm going
to be able to master the machine gun,
this new technology, um integrate it
into my own process, integrate it into
our firm's process
in ways that, you know, let me
contribute value as a human being for a
long time. But, you know, like everyone,
like, you know, I have agents running
all the time now.
>> What's your most useful agent?
>> useful agent, honestly, is as And I
think I told you this, and I don't want
to hurt your business, but my single
most useful agent is a really good
summary of the points that would be
interesting to me from podcasts. There's
like 6 hours a day of stuff that I feel
like it's in my job description to
watch. You know, every time every time
somebody from OpenAI, xAI,
Google,
you know, Cursor,
Fireworks, Space 10, let's say nothing
of like Jensen, Elon, Dario.
Um,
I feel compelled to watch and I just
don't have that much time. And there's
some real needles in haystacks. There's
a set of things I always like to see
like I'm very sensitive to management
compensation. What are they incentivized
to do? They do they have stupid RSUs? Or
do they have PSUs? And if they have
PSUs, what are those PSUs incentivized
to do? I think systems that do a very
good first pass at that.
And you know, that saves people a lot of
time. It frees them up for more creative
work than like, you know, going through
the proxy, pulling the PSU thing,
looking at how it's changed versus all
the proxies cuz there's signal in that.
And that's very labor intensive and
that's so good for an AI. And there's
obviously all sorts of same things
within investing. This is the most
exciting, thrilling time to be an
investor.
And there is and it is I am a little I'm
getting a little bit worried.
>> The diversity breakdown thing?
>> Yeah. I'm getting Say just like a little
bit more about like the kinds of people
that are
>> know of anyone like me who's not really
bullish
on DRAM. No one. No one. There's all
these interesting things happening with
AI right now.
So, one is cross-sectionally the
valuations do not make sense.
They just flat out do not make sense.
They cannot all be true. You have
semi-cap equipment companies trading at
40 times next quarter's annualized
earnings and DRAM companies trading at
mid single digit. At the peak of the
last cycle, that was like five versus
12. At one point it was like three
versus 45. Those can't both be true. And
yes,
semiconductor capex business models have
improved more than the memory business
models. We don't know how much HBM
is going to improve memory business
models yet. Yes, they have some element
of recurring revenue with parts and
maintenance,
but it's not worth a thousand percent
multiple gap. I think it's hard to
square like the valuation of something
like Nvidia, which is still, you know,
in in in early April was essentially as
cheap as it gets relative to the market
like in the last 10 or 12 years or
whatever it is, and very cheap absolute.
It's very hard to square that valuation
with something like GE Vernova's
valuation.
Cuz it builds in like
un- unfathomable amount of share loss
for Nvidia. So, valuations
cross-sectionally are really different.
Because we are in shortages,
the lowest quality companies are doing
the best.
So, if you're an oil and gas investor
or, you know, a mining investor, natural
resources
investor, and you're, you know, you're
well-versed in thinking of costs, this
is very intuitive to you. In a real bull
market for a commodity, the commodity
suppliers with the highest cost go up
the most because it's the most
beneficial to them. They go from on the
verge of bankruptcy to just gushing
cash.
And this is, I think, one reason
commodity investing is really, really
hard because quality outperforms during
the cycles, but you get all of the
outperformance during the downturns when
the high cost guys that mooned during
the shortages and the commodity bull
markets, you know, go bankrupt or
whatever. You're seeing that happen in
every industry.
The lowest quality players in, you know,
these different industries that are
hated and detested
by the hyperscalers and the buyers cuz
they have high costs, they're
unreliable, the parts fail at a high
rate, etc., etc. They're sold out and
raising prices. Um
And then that activity gets the interest
of like these retail accounts on X, and
these stocks get bid to the moon.
Whereas some of the higher quality
expressions
have like actually really
underperformed.
And, you know, as an investor, it's it's
hard because you know
within a like
a shadow of a doubt
that that thing that's moved, you know,
10x
in 3 months or 6 months
is going to go right back down subject
to what they do with all the cash. But
like these little quality companies
really do smart stuff with cash. And so
it worries me a little bit that people
who were very skeptical a year ago are
no longer skeptical. But then I just
contrast that with like the valuations
of these like high-quality companies,
which are just not extended, and it
makes me feel better. But it does kind
of feel like, you know, I just thought
it was funny in '24 and '25 that anyone
asked about an AI bubble or talked about
it. Cuz it's like you have this nuclear
bubble and this quantum bubble right
here, right in front of you. What are we
talking about? This is so real.
Some of that nuclear quantum silliness
has maybe spread into more speculative,
lower-quality, smaller-cap names
where if you have a big presence on X or
Reddit, it's easy to move them. And that
frightens me a little bit. But I just
wish there were more AI bears, like I
wish there were more memory bears. You
know, one reason I'm
you know, Astera is a stock I've been
close to a long time.
There's a lot of bears on that. I love
that. Great, you know, I first invested
in the series C. Good luck thinking
you're going to price that you know,
differentially from me. You know, good
luck thinking that's a copper loser. And
then there's also you can feel the
baskets in the market in the leverage
baskets. And what baskets you're in is
really important, you know, copper,
optical, DRAM, NAND. Um and a very
interesting thing that's happened this
year um is in '24 and '25 the AI trade
traded together.
So like you could be long GPU compute,
scale-up networking, and optical scale
across
and like short power that trade worked
from like a risk management sense cuz
you know I'm very factor aware.
That all blew out in Jan- January of
this year.
It's like you know scale up networking
would go crazy while scale out was going
down or DRAMs massively underperforming
NAND and HDDs which had not happened.
So these cross-sectional correlations
within AI
really fell apart and you had to get
very fine-grained. You couldn't hedge
your memory
anymore with like some semi-cap
equipment or NAND. Everything
cross-sectionally
really changed and in a very interesting
way in January.
And I think maybe one reason for that
was you know the AI got to a quality
where it was all of a sudden really easy
for a bunch of people to get really
smart on these different subsectors,
start trading them, and then they get
put into baskets and those baskets in
the
>> Yeah, creating price efficiency. Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. And then it's like if you
like I think some of the biggest
opportunities outside of these higher
quality names that I think can compound
for a long time
and they're safe unlike these low
quality names which are terrifying is in
names that are miscategorized.
Like Astera was in a lot of copper loser
baskets.
Astera their biggest product is going to
be a switch. You use both copper and
optics to connect switches to
accelerators.
>> [laughter]
>> And so definitionally
if you're a switch company or an
accelerator company, you cannot be a
copper loser because you're going to be
on the other side of that connection. I
I wonder if you could riff just for like
a sentence or two on each of the major
companies. I feel like I always forget
to ask you like Google, Microsoft,
Amazon, you know, the the the major
players that are public that all the
conversation is centered around these
exciting new companies.
>> Yeah. So Google uh it was incredible
last year because they had that TPU
advantage which is now gone. The reason
I think they're still in a great
position is just they have the most
compute of everyone. We talked about the
value of installed bases being higher as
a result of shortages.
They have the biggest installed base of
compute.
I am a little surprised
by
their inability and Google IO is this
is this week.
And
um
like if they don't release something
that even slightly leapfrogs
OpenAI
and or Claude
like that that's interesting and it's
not a disaster for Google. It's just
interesting and it just means this
Nvidia effect we discussed is even more
powerful than maybe I'd imagined but I'm
very curious to see what the Pareto
frontier looks like literally in five
days after Google's announced its new
stuff. This is a big card for them but
Google you know between the amount of
data they have and the YouTube data is
actually really genuinely valuable. It's
actually
it is valuable in a world of robotics.
The amount of compute they have and you
know the search business they have.
Google's never not going to be in a good
position and then you see that with GCP
going crazy. You got to give Zuckerberg
a immense credit.
What he's done in terms of making meta
an AI first company internally
and I do think he is the only one of
those true internet giants to have done
that.
And I give him a lot of credit for that.
I give him a lot of credit for paying up
when he did for you know all those you
know those billion dollar contracts that
talent.
And news I think it was a really big
upside surprise.
You know it was the first model from MSL
and it's not on the Pareto of frontier
with you know XAI Google's one entrant
and then open AI and Claude but it's
pretty close. That was very impressive
to me. So I think that is in a
better position. Still not as strong of
an absolute position as Google but like
they're better position and rates of
change matter more than level as you
know in markets particularly over short
like three year time frames over like
long time frames level of competitive
advantages tends to dominate but even
within that you know the changes changes
are really matter.
Amazon I think is in a really strong
position because of tranium. You're
going to see like real P&L efficiencies
from robotics over the next 18 months in
their retail business. I actually think
Nova their internal models are not where
Muse is but they're better than they get
credit for. Microsoft I think Satya is a
really brilliant man but you know in in
investor
conversations people just don't talk
about him the way that they did. I I
like Satya. I admire him. I think he's
an exceptional CEO.
And I give him a lot of
credit for the decisions he's made but
you know he did go from we're going to
make Google dance to being the product
manager of co-pilot
in like three years. I I would love to
know during the coup attempt against
open AI
does Satya regret his decisions?
Does Satya wish that he had supported
Ilya
and instead of Sam and that kind of Ilya
and Mira were really running open AI
today. In his heart of hearts I would
love to know.
Cuz I think the Microsoft open AI
partnership might look very different
in that world. I think that's a very
interesting question that we'll never
know the answer to.
But I give him a lot of credit like he
is what he is doing now
he's taking risk.
So they could earn you know this goes to
the decisions you have to make in that
cone of uncertainty are not only
how much you spend,
but what you're going to spend it on.
I think Microsoft flinched
for like a moment in early 25. You know,
they have this algorithm, we spend this
much CapEx dollars, we get this return.
That algorithm was kind of off.
And if you flinch, you lose position.
You lose all these allocations, and it's
difficult to get it back. So, they
flinched.
And now the decision Satya is making,
which the market has punished him for,
but I think is the right decision,
is we're going to use our compute,
rather than making, I mean, who knows
how fast Azure could be growing if
they're willing to just sell GPUs to
OpenAI.
We're going to use our compute
internally to make our own products
better. You know, one reason Copilot is
so bad, or has been so bad, is just one
enough compute available. They're fixing
that.
He's the product manager of Copilot. I
do think he's a great CEO.
And they're trying to use their compute
to train their own models.
I don't I am a little skeptical that
they have the right team to succeed
there, but, you know, they can
certainly, like, just like Meta, they
can afford
to hire maybe a maybe a different team.
But I think he's making good decisions
that are risky decisions
to position Microsoft from for this
world where frontier models are are no
longer API accessible.
And I think it's a really courageous
decision that I give him a lot of credit
for, and he is forgoing, I mean,
Microsoft probably be an $800 stock
today if they were using their GPUs to
serve OpenAI
solely OpenAI and Anthropic's capacity
instead of using them for their own
products. So, I give him a lot of credit
for making a great decision. What's
really interesting
is the degree to which these companies
are outward-facing
in their decisions. The two companies
who are the most deeply engaged with
startups are Amazon and Nvidia by a
mile. Then there's a really intense
engagement with Google. They're next
most intense.
Broadcom is engaged in a different way.
They're just, you know, everybody's
favorite ASIC supplier. Like it's, you
know, if you're a startup, it's
considered like a level up if you get to
work with Broadcom for your second gen
chip. And it's considered mana from
heaven if Broadcom works with you for
their first gen chip. And then you see
essentially zero engagement with
startups
from AMD, Microsoft, and Meta. And I
just, yeah, I mean, when I say zero,
it's a little.
And I just wonder about that decision.
Because some of the best teams
are no longer at big public companies.
They're at these smaller startups.
And I think it's going to end up being a
pretty big advantage for Nvidia, AMD,
Google right behind them to have this
engagement
that you just don't see from these other
um hyperscalers. As we wrap up, I'm
curious for you to riff on any other
like out there knock-on effects that
you've started to think about for this
giant trend. We've talked about the
specific companies in a lot of detail
that this most impacts. We talked a
little bit about the application layer
and what would have to happen for there
to be more value accruing to that layer
of the stack. I'm curious like any other
just fun knock-on things that you've
been thinking about as this world
changes so quickly.
>> Yes, and it is wild. I mean, at the
application layer, forget value
accruing, just value has been destroyed.
AI has net destroyed. Even if you count
Cursor Cognition, the most successful AI
natives, value has been
trillions of dollars of value has been
destroyed by AI at the application
layer. And just in this context, I do
think it's a little it's something we
need to be aware of. The companies that
are doing the best today that are are
kind of their values increase the most
that are creating economic value are the
companies with the highest ratio a
highest effective ratio of utilized GPUs
per human.
And you know, maybe this just means that
every human's going to get a lot of
GPUs. But I think that's an interesting
fact that we kind of need to be
cognizant of. I will just say and maybe
this is a little dark. I am more more
more and more worried about personal
safety. And I worry about this a lot
more for people who are you know, have a
much bigger public presence and are much
more associated with AI. But I really
worry about personal safety. I hope
nothing tragic happens, but like there
is this upsurge in political violence
here in America. And as AI increasingly
becomes political, I worry that's going
to get directed at more and more AI
political leaders, you know, just
whatever we can agree you know, whatever
whatever I may think or may not think of
open AI. Like I think it is terrible
that someone threw Molotov cocktails
at Sam Altman's house. I am worried that
we are headed into a higher variance
higher beta
higher risk world because of AI. And
that's for me as an individual and then
you know, for people who are big players
on the chessboard. Think about what it
means geopolitically. Like we're
watching the Ukrainians are really
starting to win.
And the reason they're winning I I think
is not really because they have better
drones. I think they do have better
drones. That's part of it. I think the
reason Ukraine is really winning is they
have the best battlefield AI.
Outside of probably America and Israel.
And has China has our adversaries begin
to process that
like how do they respond? Like if the
United States because of its edge in AI
um it's great if you're America.
But it is destabilizing for the rest of
the world. Something I think a lot about
is creating a charity to just like
educate the world on how awesome the
West has been. Slavery was endemic to
essentially almost every civilization
and slavery was really ended by the
British Empire. Tell that story. Um
but America after 1945
we had the nuclear bomb, no one else had
it.
We could have controlled the world
forever.
Instead we rebuilt Germany and Japan
and now who are America's most reliable
allies? Israel, South Korea, Japan.
That's a testament to like the American
spirit in our country. We didn't take
over the the world. You know, there were
these fears, you know, that were
documented at the time that the American
generals
and you know, MacArthur was a little bit
of an American emperor in Japan
but um we're just going to take over the
world and they could have and they
didn't. They came home, we demilitarized
and then you had this, you know this
period of of great global stability
between, you know, a scary there were
terrible wars. Yeah, you had the Pax
Americana.
So maybe it's not destabilizing. Maybe
it leads to the another Pax Ameri-
Americana
informed by our AI dominance and I'm so
optimistic that AI is going to be
amazing for the world. There's someone
like me whose daughter was diagnosed
with a very rare mutation.
There's no cure.
He was able to assemble a lot of
resources. He was able to get a lot of
compute from the labs. Um we were made
aware of what was happening.
Spun up a immense amount of agents, came
up using AI with a drug on the market
that can actually impact his daughter's
disease
and then has spun up a company to cure
it.
And like her life is already
immeasurably different because of AI. So
I'm like an AI I'm like an AI optimist
maximalist, but I also just acknowledge
it's like an event horizon.
It for sure I think it's going to be a
discontinuity. We need to navigate as
soci- as society. I think the Luddites
are going to be wrong, but we need to be
like really thoughtful in how we address
their concerns. We need to make sure
that it's good for everyone. Like it is
a little dystopian that now the best AI
is only available to people with a lot
of money. Like we need to solve that. We
need to approach this with humility,
recognize there's a lot of uncertainty,
and be thoughtful. When I do this with
you, I tell people afterwards, I'm like,
"May you find something that you love as
much as Gavin loves markets and
companies and capitalism and history."
Uh on display today as always, Gavin,
thanks so much for your time. [music]
Thank you. Thanks, Patrick.
You know how small [music] advantages
compound over time? That's true in
investing and just as true in how you
run your company. Your spending system
is your capital allocation strategy.
Ramp makes it smarter by default. Better
data, better decisions, better economics
over time. See how [music] at
ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single [music] source of
truth for security and risk. Learn more
at vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. [music] Rogo does. It's an AI
platform built specifically for Wall
Street, connected to your data,
understanding your process, [music] and
producing real outputs. Check them out
at rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity use
WorkOS to become enterprise ready
overnight, not in months. Visit
workos.com to skip the unglamorous
infrastructure work and focus on your
[music] product. Ridgeline is redefining
asset management technology as a true
partner, not just a software vendor.
They've helped firms 5x in scale,
enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgelineapps.com [music] to see
what they can unlock for your firm.